# Better Params: Strong Parameters

As part of managing form parameters in Rails, versions of Rails 4+ also have a feature built into their controllers known as "strong parameters" or "whitelisting". It is a way for us to manage exactly what goes into creating new object instances, and helps us keep unwanted information -- usually from malicious hackers -- out of the database.

A controller's strong parameters will be all the way down at the bottom of the file and will look something like this:

controllers/contacts_controller.rb
```ruby
def contact_params
	params.require(:contact).permit(:name, :phone, :email, :address)
end
```

In this method -- automatically generated by Rails -- if the application asks for `contact_params`, those parameters will require a Contact object, formatted into a hash. At this step in the process, a new Contact will look something like this:
```
{
  :contact => {

  }
}
```

Inside of that Contact hash, the `contact_params` method allows parameters like name, phone, email, and address. These are the pieces of information that can be saved into the database as part of a Contact.
```
{
  :contact => {
              :name => 'Eleanor',
              :phone => '1-800-WHITE-HOUSE',
              :email => 'eleanor@rooselvelt.com'
  }
}

```

We can safely assume that these parameters correspond to columns in the Contacts table.

In the controller's `create` method, we can see that this list is referenced when making new Contacts:

```ruby
def create
    @contact = Contact.new(contact_params)
	...
end
```

Most of the time, strong parameters are a feature we don't have to think about. If we want to add a new attribute to Contact, however, it's important to remember to add it to the strong parameters list. Otherwise, our form for creating new Contacts will silently drop the information we've told it to ignore. For example, if we created a new column for storing fax numbers without updating our `contact_params` method, the response in the Rails server would look like this:

```
Started POST "/contacts/" for ::1 at 2016-09-14 14:27:56 -0700
Processing by ContactsController#create as HTML
  Parameters: {"contact"=>{"name"=>"test", "phone"=>"555-1212", "email"=>"test1@test.com", "address"=>"123 main st", "fax"=>"123-1234"}}
Unpermitted parameter: fax
```

We can see all of the parameters being sent in, but our controller recognized "fax" as an unpermitted parameter and won't save it to the database. If we update our method:

controllers/contacts_controller.rb
```ruby
def contact_params
	params.require(:contact).permit(:name, :phone, :email, :address, :fax)
end
```

Now the entire Contact, fax number and all, will successfully be saved.
